---
layout: post
title:  "Week 9: Researching natural language processing (NLP)"
date:   2020-12-13 12:00:00 +0000
categories: blog
author: Jeremy Lo Ying Ping
---

This week, I started researching different strategies for matching users' spoken requests to modular actions registered with the voice assistant at runtime.

## Architecture design idea I - an offline search engine library

A potentially naïve but relatively simple-to-implement option would be to employ the use of a search engine library. Metadata could provide useful trigger phrases and descriptions for each supported voice assistant action, which could then form a series of documents. These documents could be processed by the search engine library and used to find the best match between a user's query and the actions supported by the voice assistant.

An example of such a library is [Whoosh](https://whoosh.readthedocs.io/en/latest/intro.html): a reasonably fast, pure-Python search engine library that provides for the searching of registered documents based on any number of search criteria.

On the other hand, some pitfalls immediately become apparent. For example, if someone wanted to know the weather in Manchester tomorrow, they might ask the following question:
> **User**:    What's the weather going to be in Manchester tomorrow?
>
> **AskBob**:  It's going to rain, because of course it will - it's Manchester!

While the search engine library might be able to match the question to a `WeatherAction` of some sorts, it could struggle to pick out the geographical location, `Manchester`, without additional parsing. Passing the whole of the transcribed utterance to the `WeatherAction` would only kick the can down the call-chain, as then the `WeatherAction` would have to try and make sense of the user's query too!

We would then be in a rather awkward situation where we might have to hardcode an action for each locality for which querying tomorrow's weather is supported.

Perhaps, it may be necessary to explore more advanced methods for examining the structure of natural language user queries.

## Architecture design idea II - natural language processing (NLP)

This conundrum can be decomposed into the following engineering challenges:
- **Problem I**: correctly identifying and extracting the precise intent from a user's query
- **Problem II**: correctly matching their intent to a registered action

Solving the first problem gives rise to an opportunity to explore using a natural language processing library, such as [spaCy](https://spacy.io/).

`SpaCy` is fast and has support for a wide number of languages (61+ languages in total with 46 statistical models for 16 languages), which would allow *AskBob* to be extended were `DeepSpeech` models in those languages to be trained and the necessary TTS voices installed. It also supports part-of-speech tagging, which would be particularly useful for identifying a user's intent.

The `spaCy` website includes pretrained models for English at three different sizes (small, medium and large) which would be make it easier to deploy to low-power devices, such as the Raspberry Pi, which may face storage capacity constraints.

Additionally, unlike alternatives, such as Microsoft LUIS and IBM Watson, `spaCy` is available completely offline, which meets our project requirements.

## Next steps

From here, it seems that our next steps should be continue our research into how `spaCy` could be used to extract intents from user queries while experimenting with code samples.

## Team changes

After a notable period of absence over the course of the previous few weeks (since ~week 4), it was confirmed that Zhuotai Yang has left the team, leaving myself and Felipe.
